% Day 1 outline

Subgroups of discrete reflection groups: (planned) outline for day 1 meeting
==================================================================

1. Introductions, settling on a meeting time, any other logistical stuff (Zulip)

2. Some big-picture philosophy:

	An arbitrary goal: "understand all groups." This problem is, in a rigorous sense, literally impossible.

	Understanding all finite groups: still practically impossible, but mathematicians at least have classified the simple ones.

	Understanding all infinite groups: completely impossible. Understanding countable groups: still impossible, but we're getting somewhere.

	So why do we even want to understand all groups? Groups (by themselves) are kind of boring.

	The interesting groups are the ones that:
	(a) have some geometry associated to them, or (b) have a well-behaved action on a space, which preserves some structure of that space.

	An old perspective (going back to the 19th century): (a) and (b) are basically the same thing ("geometry" = "theory of group actions that preserve structure").

3. Two really good examples of group actions:

	- groups acting on metric spaces by isometries (metric geometry -> geometric group theory)
	- groups acting on vector spaces by linear maps (linear algebra -> representation theory)

	This project is about understanding the connection between those two things, via reflection groups.

	We'll approach reflection groups from 3 different angles:

		- abstract group theory (Coxeter groups)

		- geometry of curved metric spaces (spherical, Euclidean, and hyperbolic space)

		- projective geometry

4. First examples: groups generated by Euclidean reflections

	- in 2 dimensions: (3,3,3) triangle group, infinite dihedral groups, products...

	- in 3 dimensions: "tetrahedral honeycomb"

5. Finite reflection groups: groups generated by reflections in an n-sphere

6. Hyperbolic reflection groups: triangle groups, right-angled polygon groups

Goals for the semester
----------------------
- understand how all 3 of these can be unified through projective geometry & linear algebra

- produce programs which can:

   - draw pictures of tilings (in projective space) coming from groups generated by linear reflections
   
   - given an abstract description of a Coxeter group, produce the "canonical" representation of this Coxeter group by reflections (full transparency: I have already written some of this code myself, but it doesn't do as much as I'd like)

- start inspecting behavior of singular values of (subgroups of) these reflection groups. I have some specific (sub)groups I'd like to look at.

Initial assignments
-------------------

### Reading
Read the beginning of Davis, chapter 6 (6.1 - 6.3, including 6.3. you can skip or skim the intro material before 6.1, and it's ok if you don't go through every single detail in 6.3)

### Programming (this may take more than a week)

A reasonable warm-up goal is to write a program which has:

**Input:** a finite collection of reflections in 2 (or 3) dimensional Euclidean space. (pick some convenient way to encode Euclidean reflection - there are several options, which we can discuss)

**Output:** a picture of either the tiling of Euclidean space you get (if these reflections actually give a discrete reflection group) or the mess of gross polygons you get (if the group is not discrete). Would also be nice to output a guess for whether the group is discrete or not.